look there's a lot of different kind of
Wars that take place around the world
some of them end up costing lives but
the one we're gonna talk about today is
a trade war this doesn't cost your life
but this could end up costing your job
and your small business and that is the
us-china trade war that is taking place
now having said this in this video we're
gonna go a different angle we're gonna
talk about seven reasons why I believe
this is taking place we're going to talk
about what Donald Trump's motivation is
behind this and who needs to and a lot
of other factors but the one thing that
we are going to talk about is a vision
that the leaders of China unveiled in
2015 to their people talking about how
China will one day be the most powerful
economic Empire in the world by 2025
where their currency the yuan will be
more powerful than the US dollar and a
few other strategies that they have in
place in the five ways of making that
become a reality so those are the things
we're gonna talk about in today's video
[Music]
so before we get right into let's first
talk about the war tariffs what it means
and why countries put a tariff on other
countries to import their products in so
first a tariff is a tax for instance you
bring your products from China to us I
put a 25% tariff on this product so if
you bring 100 billion dollars you can
have to pay another 25 billion dollars
on top of that hundred billion dollars
that's the terror of this is why you'll
notice a lot of times where when when
people come here from Europe they'll
look at a Camaro and they say oh my gosh
that's such a luxury car it's an exotic
car look at that
but Americans look at Cameron Alexis at
American buy for $20,000 but Europeans
don't pay $28,000 it may pay $40,000 for
it
just like when Americans go to Europe
and they say cab drivers driving on your
Mercedes cops have Mercedes what is this
all about because what a Camaro is in
u.s. is exactly what a Mercedes is in
Germany right so part of tariffs is to
protect the businesses in your country
so the business flows through your job
creators not somebody else's but you're
willing to allow them to come in and
compete so that's a tariff now trade
deficit what is a trade deficit this is
where a big part of this war started
taking place I'm expecting what a trade
deficit is here's US trade deficit US
imports three point one trillion dollars
and meaning countries around the world
want to do business in America
and America allows them to come in last
year three point one trillion dollars
now u.s. gives other countries only 2.5
trillion dollars so three point one
coming in but only two point five going
on I think about this u.s. there's only
330 million people around the world the
world has another 6.8 billion but
there's the same amount business being
in u.s. then out because everybody wants
to be in America so that creates a six
hundred billion dollar deficit now added
this three point one trillion dollars
that comes in 539 is China which is
seventeen point three percent but out of
our two point five trillion dollars that
goes out only 120 billion is China which
is four point eight percent meaning
China has given us less than we are
given them China is making more because
we're allowing them to compete on market
way more than we are doing in America
somebody may say what's not like they're
not allowing you they just don't have a
need for you there and you would like
them to come here because of cheap labor
and all this other stuff let me continue
the total deficit again 621 billion but
out of the 621 419 is China alone which
is 67 percent of the deficit 67 percent
of the deficit so President Trump is
sitting there saying well wait a minute
wait a minute why are we giving so much
money and why are we not getting
anything for this why are we not doing
it in America why are we creating jobs
over there why are we not keeping this
to ourselves why are we helping their
economy aren't they trying to compete
with us aren't they coming up from like
nobody to now number seven number eight
number five number four number three
number two they're wanting to compete
with America what is going on over here
no no no no let's find out what we
produce well we export grain wheat corn
soy bean meat pork poultry mechanical
parts like chips different kinds of
things China exports electronic part
wooden furniture aluminium car parts
fashion accessories like the handbags
seafood that's what we're looking at
okay so that's what we explored how come
we're not doing more why are we giving
him so much money why are they doing so
well we're helping them are we helping
them become closer to us I don't know
why this is taking place so you know
what are the reasons for this trade war
why are we doing this what's the purpose
beyond
here's what you got to realize anytime
you're dealing with politics you're
dealing with power motivation for
business owners is money and freedom and
financial freedom and control leave me
alone but when it comes on to politics
power is key then it's economy then it's
politics which is ideology China is
trying to say our ideology works because
we have the kinds of people that follow
what we tell them we are leaders we tell
them what to do and they do it America
is weak leaders because their people
always tell them what to do you know the
voters always tell them what to do and
you always know what America is doing
America matter of fact everyone knows
they're bad news because that freedom of
speech I'm gonna have freedom of press
China we know everything America is
doing America has no clue what we're
doing we are more powerful and America
is trying to say hey people are better
if they have a freedom of speech let
Americans speak let us have freedom of
press you know we believe we have a
better impact there's a bit of an
ideology going on going on there with
communism in capitalism then have
obviously competition everybody's
competing you got money you got market
you got control now all that being said
and done what's president Trump's
motivation some people are saying why
did he all of a sudden start picking on
China it's not a new thing in 2014 when
President Trump wasn't President Trump
he was Donald Trump aka Apprentice
you're fired
here's what he tweeted in May of 2014
remember China is not a friend of the
United States look at how many likes
this tweet got and it was only retweeted
345 times you know what that means
nobody was really paying attention to
what he was saying about politics back
then but this China thing is not a new
thing with President Trump he's been
thinking about this for a while so now
what is he wanting to do what's his
motivation behind this what is he doing
is it the fact that he wants to keep
manufacturing jobs in u.s. is that what
it is is it the fact that he wants to
reduce the us-china trade deficit maybe
he wants to 419 to goal or is it the
fact that he still wants to keep us as
the dominant power doesn't want to give
anybody else a shot maybe it's the fact
that he's trying to get us out of debt
because you know u.s. owes China 1.1
three trillion dollars of debt and it
used to be 1.3 trillion in 2013 and it's
1.1 3 trillion maybe this is a way for
him to learn to get out of this debt
because he's used to eliminating there
these 200 billion dollars to a bank and
this is maybe a
comfort zone it's like I'm okay with
this I can handle things like this maybe
it's him bullying the bully a lot of
people are afraid of China a lot of
people are saying well I'm not gonna say
anything because we need them we need
them we need them there's only one
country that maybe doesn't meet China
that maybe China needs more than they
need them and it's like well my position
I want to get out and say something
about this and I'm gonna bully the bully
maybe that's what it is or maybe it is
the vision that China launched back in
2015 to their people called made in
China 2025 and here's what made in China
2025 was some may say this is brilliant
some may say it's manipulative but all I
can tell you is this 100% benefits China
more than anybody else so part one of
the five-point game plan is setting
explicit targets here's what that means
Chinese government is pressuring private
companies to adjust their vision to
China's 2025 visions so saying here's
what we're doing we would like you to do
anything you do with your company to
help us reach this vision as a whole
which some may say okay that's cool
that's a visionary somebody else why are
you pressuring us you know why are you
making this duel up maybe we want to do
something else but that's what China's
doing number two providing subsidies 300
billion dollar investments this is going
to be very low interest rate loans
whatever they can do to help these
businesses grow we're talking 300
billion dollars of China's going to lend
give invest into private companies right
number three its foreign investment and
acquisitions government is encouraging
companies to invest into semiconductor
firms to gain access to their technology
or what do you mean well we want you to
go buy an investment to semiconductor
companies in u.s. so we find out exactly
what they're doing with their technology
and you know how much they put in twenty
sixteen forty five billion dollars into
US companies and they investment like oh
this is what they do let's do this in
China oh my gosh this is what they do
let's do this in China that's a turtle
for number four is mobilizing state
backed companies what does that mean
state backed meaning companies that are
owned by the government this is kind of
like you know CIA investing into
Facebook I mean imagine if that happened
to America ci is wanting Facebook to do
better because they get all the data
because that's why your information is
that's one of their game plans and last
but not least point number five which is
probably the one that's
turning the most people EU is not happy
about this Central America is not happy
about this Brazil's not happy about this
Middle East has not happened a lot of
people are not happy about this here's
what it is
number five forced transfer agreement
here's what this means if you choose to
do business in China they are forcing
you to share all your trade secrets with
them all your BOINC you want to go to
China you want to do business out there
guess what boink share all your trade
secrets with us then we're gonna go
design our boring that's what China is
doing and this right here had a lot of
people concerned a lot of people saying
wait a minute that's not fair you know
you can't come and do business in our
country we don't ask you to do all this
stuff you can come to business here but
if I want to go do business in China
have to share with you all my trade
secrets yes that's the game plan why are
you doing this here's why u.s. is good
at you know ideas and innovation us is
good at free market competition they
don't mind competition they want new
companies coming out they're competing
with the rest of them u.s. is good at
technology China on the other end
they're good at cheap labor very cheap
labor you hear a lot of these videos and
these stories about what it takes and
how hard kids work and how much money
they're making per day but they're good
at cheap labor and a lot of people wait
a minute I can get somebody worked with
me for $5.00 a day here you go they're
good at copying you here a lot of times
here's Nike but you got another one made
and you know China's version that says
nicey or whatever it's called but it's a
similar kind of a whoosh they're very
good at copying products right but
they're also very good at manufacture so
it's kind of like they're good at
copying but they're good at manufacture
so maybe we need to why are you doing
this they find out about a product they
unpack the product then they make the
same exact product for a fifth of the
price we're not helping ourselves what
is going on over here right so so us
knows this has taken place and this is
why it's a leading us to who is this
hurting the most a lot of people are
concerned I think this is hurting a lot
of people well who's reverting to the
most who who's taking the biggest hit so
we were saying other foreign
relationships some of these tariffs that
Trump impose on other countries
immediately Brazil cannot wait a minute
that tariff you put on China is hurting
us then Trump came out and said okay
this tariff excludes Brazil then results
with their tariff down you know u.s. put
a tariff on a China about certain
products Canada makes cookie Max and
wait a minute this is hurting us we are
threatening to put an impulse to us on
such-and-such product that you import to
us then Trump's like Oh
okay this tariff is only China right so
a part of this is also hurting
relationships with other countries
number two it's hurting the small
business owner now a lot of these small
business owners are relying on buying a
product for a certain price and selling
it for retail to make money Oh in a
minute I'm having to pay more I'm having
to spend more I'm not making the same
kind of profits number three farmers in
the u.s. just between January to March
two months three months
farmers in us lost eleven point eight
billion dollars in three months farmers
by the way and I believe it's Illinois
Wisconsin and Indiana highest rate of
bankruptcies in the last decade in those
areas they are taking a big hit and
obviously consumers are also also taking
a bacon and you know you hear the whole
thing Wow
you know it's short-term pain for
long-term gain this is why we're doing
this because we're gonna have a
long-term gain no one really knows this
we are currently in the short-term pain
process we're not yet in the long-term
gain process so having said this some of
the people say wait a minute Pat you
know what about the fact that you know
what if China realizes that hey if you
want to play this game with us don't you
owe us one point one three trillion
dollars you know what if China sells
their debt what happens there
could that affect the US economy in a
massive way I mean let's face it
China's got one point one three trillion
dollars in t-bills tenure Treasury bills
Treasury bonds and the current rate I
believe is three point four percent and
by the way us also owes Japan I think
it's 1.07 trillion in u.s. oates Brazil
308 billion and UK 284 billion in
Ireland 274 billion what do we do what
if China sells to debt what if they do
here's what happens if China sells the
debt what happened in 2008 the massive
market crash that we face in 2008 in US
where the market tanked nearly 40
percent in a year I'll never forget that
IAM in the financial industry I'm a
Series seven financial advisor since it
was a boom 38 percent clients Collin
Collin Collin Collin as bad as that was
it's gonna be worse
if China does this and you know who
affects the most if this happens China
China's gonna take the biggest hit China
bleep on the ones that takes the biggest
hit in this why will China take the
biggest hit
let's remember if that happens what are
they gonna do with this this is a big
part of the economy 530 and 9.5 billion
dollars so now you're listening to this
and say well Pat who need two more
twenty two more I mean us relies on the
cheap labor let's face it we need them
and China kind of relies on us for our
US goods they need us but who needs more
so here's the part that President Trump
is used to if there's one thing
President Trump is used to he knows
negotiation and he knows the leverage
this is what I mean he not he may not be
the most you know likable guy out there
in the world not a lot of people like
this guy it's for obvious reasons so he
goes after people hard core but he knows
leverage what I mean by leverage he
knows these guys needed I mean one time
president Trump owed a billion dollars
to the bank and somebody asked him and
says aren't you worried that you owed
the bank a billion dollars he says why
should I be worried the bank should be
worried I have their billion dollars
they're the ones that should be worried
so he realizes China should be worried
they have our 1.1 we have their to 1.1
30 trillion dollars and in this entire
leverage game China also has to realize
their net migration rate which is how
many people are moving to China how many
people are moving to China is one of the
lowest net migration rates in the world
it's in the negative while US migration
rate is the highest in the world we take
more immigrants than any other country
in the world it's not even close we're
number one even though you hear all this
stuff about immigration everybody in the
world wants to come to America not
everybody in the world is wanting to go
to China why is that you know this whole
whole thing do you hear if you go search
right now forget about where I'm at go
search right now China's unemployment
rate and look how weird it is the last
20 years three point four percent three
point five percent
three point eight percent three point
two percent how do we know that's
accurate
remember free press in u.s. there's no
free press type of stuff going on in
China you don't hear Democrats and
Republicans going at it one of the best
things for America is the fact that we
have Democrats going against Republicans
Republicans going against Democrats
there's always this push so you can kind
of sit there and say there's the truth
there's the truth there's a truth or
these guys are playing the games there
is none of that some people say the
unemployment in China is around 14%
thirteen point a 14% by the way CNBC
that an article saying a third of
millionaires in China want only for
three reasons number one is education
number two is polluted cities and number
three is that government has way too
much control over their people so what's
gonna really happen here how long is
this really gonna last because when
you're looking at the same well pad I
don't really understand what's gonna
happen here's the reality of it it's
really who can hold out the longest
right now really who can't afford the
longest right now you know when the
mortgage crisis took place and a lot of
people lost a lot of things there were
also a lot of people that became very
wealthy afterwards you know why it's
because who had the most cash and who
was the most stable in this situation
whoever is most stable
whoever has most cash whoever needs the
other person unless it's going to win
here and eventually someone's gonna come
out of it because what President Trump
is starting to realize is he's saying
wait a minute what if we make those jobs
come to America what if we do
manufacture new America what if what if
we bring those jobs back
well what if we make all that money come
back here well what if we're making
iPhones here and forget about what if we
don't make him here how about we go to
another country that doesn't offer high
tariffs how about go to another place
that's not offering this as expense as
it is once you go to another Asian
country that's out there but don't go to
China because he realizes this vision
that China has they want power they want
domination they want to be number one
and President Trump is extremely
competitive and he's not okay with that
happen on his turf could it happen ten
twenty thirty forty fifty six years from
now I don't know I can't predict the
future
what I can tell you is this trade war
that's going on it's all about leverage
and whoever has the most leverage it's
probably gonna end up winning at the end
and I don't know who it's going to be
but for this situation as we're looking
at we can tell who has the leverage so
having said that if you watch this video
and you're kind of worried about a
possible market crash I got another
video I want you to watch it's called
the next market crash and eight ways to
prepare for it here's a thumbnail if you
haven't watched you two click on it to
go watch we'll put a link below as well
if you haven't subscribed to the channel
please do so and if you got any thoughts
or questions comment below thanks for
watching everybody take care bye bye